Add/update ceph csi snapshotter rbac and sidecar deployments (#6017)
rook/rook: Documentation/ceph-csi-snapshot.md

indent: true
---

## Prerequisites

> - Requires Kubernetes v1.17+ which supports snapshot beta.

Reviewer: nit: `*` is used in rook instead of `-`
```suggestion
* Requires Kubernetes v1.17+ which supports snapshot beta.
```

- Install the new snapshot controller and snapshot beta CRD. More info can be found
[here](https://github.com/kubernetes-csi/external-snapshotter/tree/v2.1.1#usage)

Note: If the Kubernetes distributor you are using does not supports the snapshot beta,
still you can use the Alpha snapshots. refer to
[snapshot](https://github.com/rook/rook/blob/release-1.3/Documentation/ceph-csi-drivers.md#rbd-snapshots)
on how to use snapshots.

> - Create the `SnapshotClass`. The purpose of a `SnapshotClass` is

Reviewer 2: the snapshot class cannot be `Prerequisites` isn't it? as we are talking about how to create snapshotclass below.

Author: Adjusted this a bit.. Ptal.

> - We also need a `SnapshotClass` for volume snapshot to work. The purpose of a `SnapshotClass` is

Reviewer 2: is this a prereq?

Author: Should be fine. As snapshot can not be created without SnapshotClass and also as we have more details in the coming sections.

kubectl delete -f cluster/examples/kubernetes/ceph/csi/rbd/snapshot.yaml
kubectl delete -f cluster/examples/kubernetes/ceph/csi/rbd/snapshotclass.yaml
```

## CephFS Snapshots

### SnapshotClass

In [snapshotClass](https://github.com/rook/rook/tree/{{ branchName }}/cluster/examples/kubernetes/ceph/csi/cephfs/snapshotclass.yaml),
the `csi.storage.k8s.io/snapshotter-secret-name` parameter should reference the

> name of the secret created for the cephfsplugin and `pool` to reflect the Ceph pool name.

Reviewer 2: why we need pool in cephfs snapshot class?

> Update the value of the `clusterID` field to match the namespace that Rook is

Reviewer 2: this can be explained only once we can move this to the top to keep common for both rbd and cephfs

running in. When Ceph CSI is deployed by Rook, the operator will automatically
maintain a configmap whose contents will match this key. By default this is
"rook-ceph".

```console

> kubectl create -f cluster/examples/kubernetes/ceph/csi/rbd/snapshotclass.yaml

Reviewer 2: why we are creating rbd snapshotclass for cephfs?

`volumesnapshot` is set to true.

### Restore the snapshot to a new PVC

In
[pvc-restore](https://github.com/rook/rook/tree/{{ branchName }}/cluster/examples/kubernetes/ceph/csi/cephfs/pvc-restore.yaml),
`dataSource` should be the name of the `VolumeSnapshot` previously
created. The `dataSource` kind should be the `VolumeSnapshot`.

Create a new PVC from the snapshot

```console
kubectl create -f cluster/examples/kubernetes/ceph/csi/cephfs/pvc-restore.yaml
```

### Verify CephFS Restore PVC Creation

```console
kubectl get pvc
NAME                 STATUS   VOLUME                                     CAPACITY   ACCESS MODES   STORAGECLASS      AGE
cephfs-pvc           Bound    pvc-74734901-577a-11e9-b34f-525400581048   1Gi        RWX            rook-cephfs       55m
cephfs-pvc-restore   Bound    pvc-95308c75-6c93-4928-a551-6b5137192209   1Gi        RWX            rook-cephfs       34s
```

## CephFS snapshot resource Cleanup

To clean your cluster of the resources created by this example, run the following:

```console
kubectl delete -f cluster/examples/kubernetes/ceph/csi/cephfs/pvc-restore.yaml
kubectl delete -f cluster/examples/kubernetes/ceph/csi/cephfs/snapshot.yaml

> kubectl delete -f cluster/examples/kubernetes/ceph/csi/cephfs/snapshotclass.yaml

Reviewer 2: please add the limitations for cephfs snapshots to this doc so that people will be aware of it
* Limit of 400 snapshots per filesystem
* PVC cannot be deleted if it's having snapshots

kubectl delete -f cluster/examples/kubernetes/ceph/csi/rbd/snapshot.yaml
kubectl delete -f cluster/examples/kubernetes/ceph/csi/rbd/snapshotclass.yaml
```

## CephFS Snapshots

> **NOTE: At present, there is a limit of 400 snapshots per cephFS filesystem. Also PVC cannot be deleted if it's having snapshots.

Reviewer: How about moving this to a "limitations" section later in the doc and put it as bullet points? These don't seem like blocking issues that are important at the beginning of the section.
```suggestion
**NOTE: There is a limit of 400 snapshots per CephFS filesystem. Also the PVC cannot be deleted if it has snapshots.
```

> make sure the snapshots on the PVC are deleted before you delete the PVC.**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Make sure all the snapshots on the PVC are deleted before you delete the PVC.**
```

Author: sure.. done

### SnapshotClass

In [snapshotClass](https://github.com/rook/rook/tree/{{ branchName }}/cluster/examples/kubernetes/ceph/csi/cephfs/snapshotclass.yaml),
the `csi.storage.k8s.io/snapshotter-secret-name` parameter should reference the
name of the secret created for the cephfsplugin.

> In the snapshotclass, update the value of the `clusterID` field to match the namespace that Rook is

Reviewer: When mentioning the properties, how about adding it as a bullet list and start each bullet with the setting name? In the paragraph form it is easy to overlook the setting names. This suggestion applies to all the sections where you have new settings to document. I guess this also affects the RBD docs, so this could be a separate PR.

Author: Sure.. we could do a follow-up PR for this.

running in. When Ceph CSI is deployed by Rook, the operator will automatically
maintain a configmap whose contents will match this key. By default this is
"rook-ceph".

```console
kubectl create -f cluster/examples/kubernetes/ceph/csi/cephfs/snapshotclass.yaml
```

### Volumesnapshot

In [snapshot](https://github.com/rook/rook/tree/{{ branchName }}/cluster/examples/kubernetes/ceph/csi/cephfs/snapshot.yaml),
`volumeSnapshotClassName` should be the name of the `VolumeSnapshotClass`
previously created. The `persistentVolumeClaimName` should be the name of the

> PVC which is already created by CephFS CSI driver.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PVC which is already created by the CephFS CSI driver.
```

```console
kubectl create -f cluster/examples/kubernetes/ceph/csi/cephfs/snapshot.yaml
```

### Verify CephFS Snapshot Creation

```console
kubectl get volumesnapshotclass
NAME                        DRIVER                          DELETIONPOLICY   AGE
csi-cephfslugin-snapclass   rook-ceph.cephfs.csi.ceph.com   Delete           3h55m

kubectl get volumesnapshot
NAME                  READYTOUSE   SOURCEPVC   SOURCESNAPSHOTCONTENT  RESTORESIZE   SNAPSHOTCLASS                SNAPSHOTCONTENT                                   CREATIONTIME   AGE
cephfs-pvc-snapshot   true         cephfs-pvc                         1Gi           csi-cephfsplugin-snapclass   snapcontent-34476204-a14a-4d59-bfbc-2bbba695652c  3h50m          3h51m
```

> The snapshot will be ready to restore to a new PVC when `READYTOUSE` field of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The snapshot will be ready to restore to a new PVC when the `READYTOUSE` field of the
```

kubectl delete -f cluster/examples/kubernetes/ceph/csi/rbd/snapshot.yaml
kubectl delete -f cluster/examples/kubernetes/ceph/csi/rbd/snapshotclass.yaml
```

## CephFS Snapshots

> NOTE: At present, there is a limit of 400 snapshots per cephFS filesystem. Also PVC cannot be deleted if it's having snapshots.

Reviewer 2: can we highlight this one?

Author: sure. done
